
<p>
<strong>Welcome to the information database for Startup Live Hosts!</strong>
</p>

<p>
In the following those who are interested to organize a Startup Live event in their city will find all the information necessary to make the right decision whether to take on the responsibility and joy to host such an event or not. It includes an overview what you will get from us, what your tasks would be, a typical event budget calculation, the exemplary contract you would need to sign, and much more.
</p>

<p>
After the contract is signed, you will receive access to 3 more large sections of this wiki system, which contains all information and documents you need during the planning phase and the event itself to organize an awesome event. It includes our know-how from hosting more than 60 events over the years. If you follow our guidelines and tips, your event will run smoothly and become a big success.
Our event format is still very flexible and can be easily adapted in many dimensions and without difficulties, as we explain every option in detail. 
</p>

<p>
As a starting point, we recommend you to checking out our website and to go through it carefully to get the best initial understanding possible of the event. Navigate through old events to see how other hosts modified the schedule, to see event pictures, or to see the kind of mentors we are looking for. Watch our event video, read the ‘How it works’ session and the <abbr title="Frequently Asked Questions">FAQ</abbr>. Done? OK great, then let&#039;s not waste time and get started.
</p>

<p>
&raquo; <a href="/wiki/hosts-guidelines/home" class="wikilink1" title="hosts-guidelines:home"> Part 1: The pre-arrangement phase</a>
</p>

<p>
&raquo; <a href="/wiki/hosts-planning/home" class="wikilink1" title="hosts-planning:home"> Part 2: The planning phase</a>
</p>

<p>
&raquo; <a href="/wiki/hosts-event/home" class="wikilink1" title="hosts-event:home"> Part 3: The event phase</a>
</p>

<p>
&raquo; <a href="/wiki/hosts-aftercare/home" class="wikilink1" title="hosts-aftercare:home"> Part 4: The aftercare phase</a>
</p>

<p>
<br>
<em class="u">Additional information:</em>
</p>

<p>
&raquo; <a href="/wiki/hosts-faq/home" class="wikilink1" title="hosts-faq:home"> FAQ</a>
</p>
