
<p>
In this section we will tell you what it means to host a Startup Live event. Based on this information you should be able to decide whether to become a host or not.
</p>

<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="your_profile_motivation_and_benefits">Your profile, motivation and benefits</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
The intrinsic motivation of the host is the most important aspect whether an event becomes awesome or not. Thus, if you mainly aim to earn money with the event (which is of course also possible), this is probably not for you. Here is what our hosts motivates:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Supporting their local community to turn more innovative and promising new ideas into successful businesses</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Making a lasting impact in fostering entrepreneurship, innovation, and the creation of successful new start-ups</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Building or supporting the start-up community in your region and change people’s lives</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Becoming part of an European-wide event series and international network of event ambassadors</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Recognize yourself in one or more of those points? Great, then Startup Live is the ideal partner to help you achieve this fast, efficiently, and reliably.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Promoting ur product etc in our community . I could be an accelerator, co-working space.
</p>

<p>
With Startup Live, you do not have to create a new …, establish a new concept that has to tested and proven, and build a community without a standing. You can reach your goals faster and easier with Startup Live, an European-wide brand that has a well-proven event format that helped to create a large number of successful start-ups.
Motivation is the one side, and capabilities are the other. You should bring confidence and experience to handle the following key activities as host:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Excellent event management skills to realize an awesome Startup Live event</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Acquire sponsors to cover the event costs</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Build a team that helps me organize the event</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Invite top-class mentors, speakers, and moderator from your region</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> You recognize yourself in that description?  Perfect, then let’s move on.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Your profile, motivation and benefits" [167-1964] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="what_you_get_from_us">What you get from us</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The right to use the brand of Startup Live</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Access to all information and know-how that is necessary to conduct an awesome event</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Marketing material, official opening presentation, checklists, event planning support</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Website and ticketing solution</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Access to our network of international mentors, moderators, and speakers</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Host buddy from our pool of previous hosts (if </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Winner team qualifies for getting 2 Pioneers Tickets for upcoming Pioneers Festival from our yearly contingent. (If we have more winning teams than tickets we randomly assign the available tickets)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A dedicated person from us that is available for consultation</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Exposure in the media and our community of 25000+ people (press releases, website, social media) and 500+ unique website visitors per day</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
We can offer operative support (marketing, find location, find mentors, etc.) for an additional ticket share (more later)
</p>

<p>
sales commission + exclusivity as future options
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "What you get from us" [1965-2973] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="differentiation_from_startup_weekend">Differentiation from Startup Weekend</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Event focus is on developing a business concept, not a working prototype</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Flexible event format (2 vs. 3 days, new team formations vs. mature start-ups, all topics vs. topic focus)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Less rigid terms and restrictions</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Very limited number of events per year (around 20 in the near future), thus hosts have a high visibility and join an exclusive club of organizers</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Be part of an European host and mentors network with yearly meet-ups in the near future</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Get exclusivity in your city, region, or country to host Startup Live events, which also gives you more leverage in acquiring financial sponsors</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Take on a brand that stands for fresh thoughts, diversity, joy, excitement, and getting things done</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Best teams from each event get direct access to financial investment opportunities through our partners CONDA and Pioneers</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Upon availability (we have a limited contingent per year) 2 tickets for the Pioneers Festival for the winning team (worth 600 Euros per ticket)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unique collaborations with corporates: On top, hosts can become a seller of our corporate packages and get an attractive commission. For example we organize special “themed” events for large companies. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Possibility to combine Startup Live event with preceding Pioneers Unplugged event to attract additional (technical) participants </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Teams that participate in Startup Live events get free access to the WhatAVenture tool from our partner WhatAVenture, an online tool that help start-ups to improve their business model – scientifically proven to increase the success chance of a startup; printed working documents can already be used at the event to give teams guidance during the working sessions.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Amazing feedback from previous hosts and great success stories prove the efficiency of our event format </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Differentiation from Startup Weekend" [2974-4847] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="the_budget">The budget</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Now let’s talk about the financials. With Startup Live you won’t have any financial risk! You never have to worry about covering your cost if you follow our process. Moreover, with our guidelines you should never have a problem to sell a few sponsor packages that will even ensure a decent remuneration for all the working hours you put into the event.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "The budget" [4848-5231] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="the_costs">The costs</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Thorough planning is key to keeping your costs low. Of course for the first event you will have more effort to find a good location, catering, photographer, etc. 
</p>

<p>
SUL facilitator (travel cost), if not hosted an event before
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit6"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0 leftalign"> Fix cost    </th><th class="col1 leftalign"> Basic&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;      </th><th class="col2 leftalign"> Normal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;          </th><th class="col3 leftalign"> High-class&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  </th><th class="col4"> Comment </th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<th class="col0 leftalign"> Buffet    </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 1.500 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 2.500 €        </td><td class="col3"> 3.500 € </td><td class="col4"> Try to get it sponsored!! </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<th class="col0"> Location</th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €        </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 0 €        </td><td class="col3"> 3.000 € </td><td class="col4"> Try to get it sponsored!! </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<th class="col0"> Print material </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 500 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 500 €        </td><td class="col3"> 1.000 € </td><td class="col4"> Try to get it sponsored!! </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row4">
		<th class="col0"> Online marketing </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 200 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 500 €        </td><td class="col3"> 1.000 € </td><td class="col4 leftalign">  </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row5">
		<th class="col0"> Moderator </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 500 €        </td><td class="col3"> 2.000 € </td><td class="col4"> Try not to save money here, a good moderator is important! </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row6">
		<th class="col0"> Photographer </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 200 €        </td><td class="col3"> 500 € </td><td class="col4 leftalign">  </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row7">
		<th class="col0"> Video </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 0 €        </td><td class="col3"> 5.000 € </td><td class="col4"> Video coverage is optional, if you have enough sponsoring income you can do this </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row8">
		<th class="col0"> Travel expenses </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 600 €        </td><td class="col3"> 6000 € </td><td class="col4"> Maximum of 2 international mentors </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row9">
		<th class="col0"> Mentors - remuneration </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 0 €        </td><td class="col3"> 2.000 € </td><td class="col4"> Mentors should participate for free. You can pay up to 4 “high-class” mentors if necessary </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row10">
		<th class="col0"> Other expenses </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 300 €        </td><td class="col3"> 500 € </td><td class="col4"> Example: transport costs </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row11">
		<th class="col0"> TOTAL </th><th class="col1 leftalign">2.200 €         </th><th class="col2 leftalign">5.100 €        </th><th class="col3">19.100 € </th><th class="col4"> </th>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT6 TABLE [5480-6747] -->
<p>
For the working time of yourself and your team, we take 15 Euros per hour as basis of the calculation, as the income should not be your top priority; you have intrinsic motivation to do this event! Still you should get a decent compensation for all the work if you do a good job. For the hours at the event we calculate with 0 Euros, as this is your event, so you should enjoy it and not see it as ROI component.
</p>

<p>
High-class: higher HR cost
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit7"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0 leftalign"> HR cost    </th><th class="col1"> Hours </th><th class="col2 leftalign"> Basic&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;      </th><th class="col3 leftalign"> Normal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;          </th><th class="col4 leftalign"> High-class&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  </th><th class="col5"> Comment </th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<th class="col0"> Project / event management </th><td class="col1"> 50 </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 750 €         </td><td class="col3 leftalign"> 750 €        </td><td class="col4"> 975 € </td><td class="col5"> Team coordination, planning &amp; tracking activities, finding location, catering, etc. </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<th class="col0"> Sales (sponsors) </th><td class="col1"> 50 </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 750 €         </td><td class="col3 leftalign"> 750 €        </td><td class="col4"> 975 € </td><td class="col5 leftalign">  </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<th class="col0"> Acquire and on-board mentors </th><td class="col1"> 16 </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 240 €         </td><td class="col3 leftalign"> 240 €        </td><td class="col4"> 312 € </td><td class="col5"> </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row4">
		<th class="col0"> Design </th><td class="col1"> 8 </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 120 €         </td><td class="col3 leftalign"> 120 €        </td><td class="col4"> 156 € </td><td class="col5"> Flyer, marketing </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row5">
		<th class="col0"> Marketing &amp; PR </th><td class="col1"> 56 </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 840 €         </td><td class="col3 leftalign"> 840 €        </td><td class="col4"> 1092 € </td><td class="col5"> Incl. website updates, social media marketing, scouting and contacting start-ups and talents </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row6">
		<th class="col0"> Onsite during the 3 days </th><td class="col1"> 200 </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col3 leftalign"> 0 €        </td><td class="col4"> 0 € </td><td class="col5"> Team of at least 5 people to run event, but this is your event and you should ENJOY it </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row7">
		<th class="col0"> Aftercare </th><td class="col1"> 16 </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 240 €         </td><td class="col3 leftalign"> 240 €        </td><td class="col4"> 312 € </td><td class="col5"> PR, documentation, etc. </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row8">
		<th class="col0"> TOTAL </th><th class="col1"> 396 </th><th class="col2 leftalign"> 2940 €        </th><th class="col3 leftalign"> 2940 €         </th><th class="col4"> 3822 € </th><th class="col5 leftalign">  </th>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT7 TABLE [7191-8283] -->
</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "The costs" [5232-8284] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit8" id="costs_-_conclusions">Costs - conclusions</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> If you are ok with getting out of the event with no earnings for your team, you can organize an event with costs of just 3.000 Euros. The key is to find a location that can be used for free. This is normally not difficult, as there are always organizations and institutions who like to offer their location in return for a small branding package and the chance to join the event with some representatives. The same goes for the catering: you can find sponsors that cover a significant share of the cost. And keep it simple: participants focus on working and do not need a five-star menu!</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> With a budget of 8.000 Euros you are able to host already a really good event without any financial worries. With that amount you can provide good catering, have a decent marketing budget, can even fly in some international mentors, pay a small remuneration to a photographer or moderator, and of course keep some of the earnings for your team.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> In case you are a true seller and innovator, you can organize an extraordinary event. This is far from needed and especially not recommended for first-timers. It is only possible with raising a lot of sponsoring deals (add here: charge more, better line-up, etc. leads to …)</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
so yes, serious event business is not just starting a Facebook event and share it. One key skill is raising sponsorship and this is something you must do if you want to become a host. Otherwise get someone in your team with sales experience or leave it…
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Costs - conclusions" [8285-9798] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="the_income">The income</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Now let’s take a look how we raise the budget of 3.000 to 8.000 Euros.
Our course we will provide you with details about the sponsoring packages…
</p>
<div class="table sectionedit10"><table class="inline">
	<thead>
	<tr class="row0">
		<th class="col0"> Income source</th><th class="col1"> Basic </th><th class="col2"> Normal </th><th class="col3 leftalign"> High-class  </th>
	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tr class="row1">
		<th class="col0"> Ticket sales</th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 1.200 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 1.500 €        </td><td class="col3"> 3.200 € </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row2">
		<th class="col0"> Local grant</th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 0 €        </td><td class="col3"> 1.800 € (1x) </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row3">
		<th class="col0"> Diamond partner</th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 0 €        </td><td class="col3"> 9.000 € (1x) </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row4">
		<th class="col0"> Platinum partner</th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 0 €         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 5.400 € (1x)        </td><td class="col3"> 9.000 € (2x) </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row5">
		<th class="col0"> Gold partner </th><td class="col1 leftalign"> 2.700 € (2x)         </td><td class="col2 leftalign"> 2.700 € (2x)        </td><td class="col3"> 3.600 € (3x) </td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="row6">
		<th class="col0"> TOTAL</th><th class="col1"> 3.900 € </th><th class="col2"> 9.600 € </th><th class="col3 leftalign"> 26.600 €  </th>
	</tr>
</table></div>
<!-- EDIT10 TABLE [9974-10432] -->
</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "The income" [9799-10433] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="in_my_city_sponsoring_and_high_ticket_prices_are_not_possible">In my city sponsoring and high ticket prices are not possible</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Ok, we “sponsor” some cities if proof of: …
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "In my city sponsoring and high ticket prices are not possible" [10434-10554] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit12" id="the_contractrulesexpectations">The contract / rules / expectations</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
For hosts: Earnings share
2 quality events per year in one city
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "The contract / rules / expectations" [10555-10670] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit13" id="expectations">Expectations</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
•	Do more than 1 event
•	Acquire exclusive event partner: we receive 50%
•	Acquire national partner: we receive 50%
•	Acquire global partner: we receive 80%
Ticket and sponsor share: see Excel
SUL can manage invoices  contract limitations for expenses! (need approval)
</p>

<p>
je mehr sie sponsoring sie raisen umso mehr support von uns
</p>

<p>
Empfehlen: host bei SUL schonmal dabei gewesen 
</p>

<p>
Participants ideal 60-80, Lieber hohe Qualität 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT13 SECTION "Expectations" [10671-11136] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit14" id="sales_commissions">Sales commissions</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
•	National or global partner in all events for 1 year – TBD, starting from 10.000 (national) or 20.000 (global) Euros *80% SUL
•	Exclusive event for the company – 20.000 -30.000 Euros ** 50% SUL if you host it, otherwise 80%
</p>

<p>
2 forms: a) own invoicing b) we invoice
Partner können direct über Eventbrite Paket kaufen, vgl. hier <a href="https://www.leanstartupmachine.com/cities/vienna/sponsorship_registration/new" class="urlextern" title="https://www.leanstartupmachine.com/cities/vienna/sponsorship_registration/new"  rel="nofollow">https://www.leanstartupmachine.com/cities/vienna/sponsorship_registration/new</a>
problematisch sind ER, evtl. mal paypal checken
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT14 SECTION "Sales commissions" [11137-11632] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit15" id="milestones">Milestones</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT15 SECTION "Milestones" [11633-11659] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit16" id="checklist">Checklist</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
what you should have to start (clarity about event format, team, business entity, budget)
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT16 SECTION "Checklist" [11660-11775] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit17" id="more_facts">More facts</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
English is main language (documents, stage)
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT17 SECTION "More facts" [11776-11846] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit18" id="host_faq">Host FAQ</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
wann bekommen die Teams die pf Codes
all templates etc. are in English. For some you might decide to translate them into your local language (e.g. press releases). this is a one-time effort you would have to do, for future events you then have it.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT18 SECTION "Host FAQ" [11847-] -->